---
layout: post
date: 2011/08/17 21:41:09
title: Hospitalist Heaven
comments: true
categories: hospitalist medicine
published: false
---

Whenever things get too busy in the hospital, morale drops. I
[complained about that](/blog/2011/08/06/when-i-get-too-busy) a little
while ago. Now I have a little good news to report. Administration has
been planning to add another line to the schedule because of the
increased volume. They asked a few of the hospitalists (I wasn't
involved) to come together to figure out the best way to use that
additional line. Instead of just adding another rounder or another
admitter, we're going to have a flex-admitter. Yeah, they just made
that word up. The flex-admitter will be scheduled to work from 7AM to
4PM doing just admissions and holding the painful 9050 pager. (That's
the pager that gets all the calls from the ER, consults, and outside
hospitals). At 3PM, the flex-admitter hands over the 9050 pager to the
evening admitter, and ties up loose ends in order to be able to get
out by 4 (as long as it's not too busy). They then come in the next
day and start their rounding shifts, which means that they get to keep
taking care of the patients they just admitted. Yay for continuity!

The flex part comes in when it gets busy. Right now, when it gets
busy, we don't have a lot of options. We try to find people to come in
on their off-days, or find moonlighters, but that is difficult and
expensive. Now, if the census rises above a certain number
(tentatively 15 patients per doc), then the flex-admitter will
automatically switch from an admitter to a rounder. They'll still come
in at 7AM, but will be assigned 10 patients and will be responsible
for the 9050 pager until noon. After that, they can focus on rounding
on their patients with a goal of getting out by 7PM. This is similar
to how our Day 1 currently functions, so it's doable. They've also
recommended changes in the way the 9050 pager is handed off, so the
overnight person holds the 9050 pager for a shorter period of
time. It's key to make our night shifts more palatable so we can hold
on to our valuable nocturnist and hopefully hire a few more.

We'll have to see how this works in practice, but I see this change as
improving continuity, making night shifts better, making the first day
shift better, and making our responsiveness to high census better, all
of which should help overall morale. I love that the decision-making
power for these changes was given to hospitalists in the trenches,
rather than made from above by administration.

We're hiring hospitalists, nocturnists and PA's, so if you're
interested in working with super-intelligent docs (and me), in a
[great community hospital](http://www.durhamregional.org) where you
can actually make changes in the way healthcare is delivered, while
having the backing of an academic giant (Duke) in the background,
contact me and I'll put you in touch with the people in charge.
