---
date: 2010/11/03 08:44:00
layout: post
title: A sad day for this Wisconsinite
categories: news
---
 
[Russ Feingold](http://www.russfeingold.org/) lost his U.S. Senate
race. I haven't been following Wisconsin politics since I left 14
years ago, but this makes me sad. The last time that I really cared
about the U.S. political landscape was 1992. I was 21 and in college
at the University of Wisconsin and was voting for the first time. Bill
Clinton was generating excitement, especially on college campuses, but
I was more interested in Russ Feingold's campaign. He was a no-name
state senator, running against incumbent Bob Kasten. He seemed honest,
funny and down-to-earth. He painted his campaign promises on his
garage door so that everyone would be able to hold him to them. I
remember people saying that if he won, he'd change. The amazing thing
is that he didn't. In 3 terms in the Senate, he has continued to stay
humble, while also crossing the aisle at times and voting against
popular, but misguided policies like the Patriot Act.

After the 1992 election, I remember thinking that real change was
coming. I know that the main reason that I was so excited in 1992 was
because it was my first time being a part of the political process. Of
course, as we all know, not much ever changes in U.S. politics. I've
come to realize and accept that. Russ Feingold was an exception and
seeing him lose, despite having lived up to his high standards, makes
me sad.
