---
date: 2002/09/22 00:00:00
layout: post
title: R.I.P.
categories: apple ipod computer backup
---

Bad news! My Powerbook G3 went kaput yesterday. After a day or so of
troubleshooting, I'm blaming it on a dead Power Management Unit. I
bought it used in 1999 and have been using it *heavily* since. It's
lived in 7 apartments with me (yup, 7!) from Boston to Green Bay to
Minneapolis to Boston (again!) and now to NYC. I still think that 4-5
years is way too short a lifespan for a computer, especially since it
was meeting my needs in every other way. But, alas, that's life in
these days of planned obsolescence.

Anyway, the really bad news is that I stored *everything* on that
computer. I'm hoping that my diagnosis above is correct and that the
hard drive is unharmed, but we'll find out soon. If not, I'll have
lost lots and lots of stuff...

I'm replacing it with an [eMac](http://www.apple.com/emac/). It has a
700 Mhz G4, a combo drive (CDRW,DVDROM) and a 17" screen. I came
*this* close to making an impulse purchase at the Apple Store in Soho
when I saw the 17" iMac, but my brother was able to talk me down :-)
The iMac is real pretty, but the eMac has everything that I need at
almost half the price ($1049 vs $1999). I did end up making one
impulse buy though - an iPod. But, I blame that on
[MarkD](http://badgertronics.com/blog) since he slyly let me use his
while he was visiting last weekend. I have no question that he's
getting a kickback somehow :-)
