---
date: 2009/09/22 00:00:00
layout: post
title: Running slow
categories: running motivation
---

I've been a runner for a long time. I started running in junior high
school, so I could be on the track team. I've had a few long stretches
where I didn't run, but for most of the past 25 years, I've been a runner.

It wasn't until the 2005 New York Marathon though, that I really felt like
a runner. I had already run 2 marathons, but I had walked a lot in both of
them. I ran the entire NYC Marathon from beginning to end. That, to me, was
a **huge** deal. Before 2004, I don't think I would ever have believed that
I could do that. I don't necessarily think that using walk breaks makes you
any less of a runner. But, **for me**, using walk breaks was a crutch. I'd
gotten to the point that running 3, 4 or even 5 miles was easy. I dreaded
anything longer than that. If I was planning a 9 mile run, I would start
doing math in my head around mile 3. "OK, I've done 3 miles, now I just
need to do that again... and then again..." And that's where I would defeat
myself. I mean, I was already tired at mile 3! How was I going to do that
same distance *twice* more?

Sometime around 2004, that changed. I was working at Metropolitan Hospital,
which is on 96th street and 1st avenue in NYC. I had decided to run the NYC
Marathon in 2005, but I wasn't training enough. After the subway ride home
from work, I would be drained, and going out for a run at 6 or 7 PM was
just too much to even think about. I'm so glad that I had made the decision
to run the marathon. I hadn't even signed up - it was way too early - but
that decision in my brain was firm. I knew that I had to find a way to
train. Running in the morning was an option, but if you know me, then you
know that it wasn't. :-) Ironically, I'm now up before 5AM every day these
days because of my 2 precious little ones. But, back in those bachelor
days, mornings didn't exist.

I decided to make running part of my daily commute. I would take the subway
to work and then run home after work. I was living on 22nd St and 3rd
Avenue, so it was a 5 mile run along the East River. Living in NYC was so
convenient in that way. I never had to worry about leaving a car at work or
figuring out what to do if I couldn't run all the way home. The subway was
always there. I started out by running every couple days, then every other
day, and then, as many days as I could. It was great for training and for
my peace of mind. There's no better way to release the stress of a workday
than a long, easy run. I got much faster during the summer of 2004, and in
September, I ran the Staten Island Half Marathon in 1:41:56, which is much
faster than I ever dreamed was possible at that time.

But getting *faster* is not the point of this article. Running *longer* is. 

The other thing that happened that summer was that I met and fell in love
with Mala. By the next spring, we had decided to move in together, and we
were both living in her tiny little apartment in the Bronx. At first, this
curbed my running a bit. But, eventually, I came to the same conclusions
that I had made the year before. I **had** to run and the only feasible way
was after work. But, the commute was now 8 miles instead of 5. And instead
of a leisurely jog along the East River, I now had a somewhat exhausting
urban trek through some shady neighborhoods. I never had any real problems,
but I always felt a little fear during parts of my run. Every once in a
while a teenager would see me running and shout something at me, or run
along with me for a few steps. But, it always seemed playful, so I never
felt too threatened. Running with a backpack through the South Bronx
probably made me the craziest thing in the neighborhood, so I didn't need
to worry :-) Anyway, the point is that my run was now longer and subway
stops were fewer and further between. In addition, I had all that fear, so
I felt that I needed to conserve energy in case, you know... I needed to
**sprint!**

So, I ended up running a lot **slower**. Even though I was pretty sure I
could make it 8 miles, I started a lot slower and didn't start speeding up
until I was within a mile or two of home. And I don't mean just a little
slower. I would run so slow that I felt people were thinking, "Why doesn't
he just walk?". That was tough for me. As much as I hate to admit it, I do
think about what other people think, and the last thing I want anyone to
think is that I'm a slow runner. But, I purposefully shed those superficial
inhibitions in the name of survival. I would slow WAY down. This eventually
served two purposes. The most important immediate purpose was that it
allowed to me to get home safely each night. The more lasting purpose was
that it gave me the confidence that I can always *build up energy* by
slowing down. No matter how tired I was, if I slowed down enough, I would
build up energy again. I know it makes sense, but I didn't believe it until
I tried it. And I guess I thought I *had* tried it before, but the problem
was my ego. I had never let myself really slow enough to the point that it
was valuable. Slowing down was the best thing I ever did as a runner.

So, that's how I was able to run the NYC marathon without stopping in
2005. Now, even when I haven't been training regularly, I know that I can
run 10+ miles on any given day. Just by slowing down. They won't be the
fastest 10 miles I've run, but it's such a great feeling to know that I can
do it. It gives me freedom in my runs, too. I know I can take any hill,
just by slowing down. I can speed up at any point in my run, just by
slowing down before and afterwards. 

So, if you've gotten to the point that you can run 3 miles comfortably, but
couldn't dream of running 10 or 20, slow way down. So slow that you feel
like a fraud. See if that doesn't let you run longer. And if that fails,
try running in the Bronx :-)
