---
layout: post
date: 2011/08/12 12:44:31
title: Why We Get Fat Review
comments: true
categories: review health
---

Dear patients,

{% img right /images/whywegetfat.jpg Why We Get Fat %}
I am sorry. I have been giving you bad dietary advice. In medical
school we learned that fat in your diet causes fat to accumulate in
your arteries, causing heart attacks and strokes, so I told you to eat
a low fat diet. Of course, looking back, we had no evidence to support
that conclusion, but it just seemed rather obvious. Obvious ideas are
often the most dangerous ideas of all. When you see a study that
**might** confirm your obvious idea, you give it extra weight. When
you see a study that **might** refute your obvious idea, you find
problems with the study. When the idea is less certain, then you tend
to give the empirical evidence more weight. This is what we've done
with the hypothesis that dietary fat causes heart disease.

I just finished Gary Taubes' "[Why We Get
Fat](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307272702/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=vinodkurupshomep&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399369&creativeASIN=0307272702). It's
not a perfect book, but I do recommend it. He dispels myths about why
obesity occurs, explains what really causes it, and discusses why our
current medical and public health approaches to obesity are hurting
rather than helping. He starts out by dispelling the myth that obesity
is caused by an imbalance of "Calories In" versus "Calories Out", and
more specifically, that obesity can be fixed by reversing that
imbalance. This is something I certainly believed. I've always told
patients to eat less and exercise more. [It doesn't
work.](/blog/2006/10/23/health-at-every-size/) Instead of calorie
imbalance causing obesity, he states that obesity (and growth in
general) **causes** a calorie imbalance. The increased amount of fat
cells require more energy for sustenance, and therefore our bodies
find a way to increase the amount of calories that we take in,
compared to what we expend. So, while it is true that taking in more
calories than you expend causes your weight to go up, it is not true
that you have much control over your calorie intake or
expenditure. That's determined by hormones. This is the part that is
counter-intuitive. It would seem that I could control the amount of
calories that I eat or that I spend. You might have some control over
what foods you put in your mouth, buy you have no control over how the
calories are extracted or absorbed. You also have no control over the
lower level hormonal signals that make you hungry. Those signals have
evolved over millions of years to be very powerful because in
prehistoric periods, if they didn't work, you died. It's hard to
overcome that kind of evolutionary power with "willpower". Even if you
are successful in decreasing the calories that you eat, your body will
naturally decrease the calories that you burn. The variables are
dependent on each other.

{% pullquote %}
This leads to the next question: Why do we get obese? If it's not a
simple matter of eating more calories than we expend, then why do we
get fat? The culprit is insulin. Insulin causes the cells of our body
to deposit fat. Insulin, in turn, is released whenever there is
glucose in our system, which is preferentially caused by carbohydrate
intake. {" The villain is carbs. "} Taubes goes into great detail about
the workings of the endocrine system, explaining why insulin is such a
powerful factor in causing fat deposition. It also explains the
phenomenon of why people who have plenty of fat still get so
ravenously hungry. Insulin prevents fat from being turned into energy
so muscle cells have to use carbohydrates, a much smaller pool of
energy. Once it runs out, intense hunger sets in and the eating cycle
starts again. Reading these chapters took me back to my med school
physiology courses. I learned all of this in med school, but we were
never taught to connect these well accepted facts with the things that
we were being taught in our dietary lectures.
{% endpullquote%}

Eliminating carbs from our diet without restricting any other nutrient
will stop the fat deposition process, which in turn will decrease our
calorie requirements, which will cause us to lose weight. There is
quite a bit of genetic variation from person to person, so some
individuals will be able to tolerate more carbs than others, and not
everyone will be completely lean even without any carbs.

He spends a lot of time going over the history of dietary research
dating back centuries. The danger of carbs was well understood and
accepted in all scientific and nonscientific circles until the last 50
years or so, when there was a change that attributed obesity to
behavioral weakness. This was started by the acceptance of the calorie
imbalance hypothesis. Once people accepted the thinking that taking in
more calories than you expend causes obesity, it was a short step to
blaming obesity on the individual for not controlling their diet or
exercising more. The focus of scientific research was taken off of fat
deposition and on to behavioral changes.

I had been coming around to this conclusion slowly over the past few
years (and am embarrassed that it has taken me this long). I remember
reading about the Atkins Diet about 10 years ago and thinking how
reckless Dr. Atkins was being by suggesting something which was so
obviously wrong. My thinking started to change a few years back when I
saw Mala struggle to lose weight despite strictly following an 800
calorie diet. I didn't think that kind of calorie restriction was
possible, but I watched with my own eyes as she did it and still
barely saw results. That opened my eyes, and over the past few years,
I've seen more and more results with low carb diets. Results which
include weight loss, better cholesterol profiles, and overall better
health. Interestingly, the diet recommendations that are provided in
the book are from [Eric Westman,
MD](http://www.dukehealth.org/physicians/eric_c_westman), a UW trained
physician who works just down the street from me.

Mala and I have been trying to get healthier over the past 8
months. My brother started a Biggest Loser competition amongst a bunch
of us, and Mala won the first season. We've been exercising with more
regularity and eating better. Together, we've lost over 80 lbs. To
complicate the points that I've been making in this post, we have
**NOT** been following a strict low carb diet, and we **have** been
counting calories. On the other hand, I'm certain we're eating less
carbs than we did before. But Mala's focus has been on making
delicious (gourmet!) fresh food using "real food" ingredients. She's
tried to cut processed food completely out of our diet. I think that
makes a huge difference. We're not meant to eat chemicals and we have
no idea what these chemicals are doing to us. Optimizing food for
specific criteria, whether that's low-fat, low-carb, or whatever, is
bound to have unintended consequences. In that vein, I agree with
Michael Pollan's recommendation to "Eat Real Food".

At some point, I'd like to review all the science behind the
conclusions in Taubes' book, just so I can have a better understanding
for myself. I recommend that anyone treating patients (nurses,
doctors, nutritionists, trainers) or anyone trying to get healthier
read this book.
 
Some other much more entertaining and useful links:

- [Latest in Paleo podcast](http://www.latestinpaleo.com/)
- [Weston A. Price Foundation](http://www.westonaprice.org/)
- [Paleo Diet: Link Primer](http://hivelogic.com/articles/the-paleo-diet-a-link-primer/)
- [Great podcast episode by 2 Duke docs](http://radio.theheart.org/bob-harrington-show/2010/12/10/31-atkins-diet-obesity-and-cardiovascular-disease-risk-with-dr-eric-westman) - theheart.org
