---
categories:
- parenting
- life
date: '2011-03-03T21:11:24'
title: Parenting Highs and Lows
---


*Written a few weeks ago*

I came home late today, so Anika and Kavi had already eaten dinner and
taken their baths. As I drove down the driveway, I could see Kavi's
excited little head poking over the upstairs windowsill. I parked the
car and opened the door into the house. I was immediately met a voice
screaming, "Daddy, Daddy!" with pure joy in his voice. He ran down the
stairs and gave me a huge hug. I just love that. There is nothing
better than coming home to such a loving family. It makes all the
stress and BS at work melt away.

Then I followed him upstairs and Anika ran over and gave me a big hug
and then started "Dancing on the diaper pad!" (Will have to upload a
video of that someday). I watched for a few moments and then got up to
go change my clothes. She started to get upset, so I held her hand and
walked her down the hallway with me. That's another thing I
love. Seeing this sweet little girl with her arm extended as high as
she can possibly reach to hold my hand, walking with me, like I'm the
most important person in the world, just makes my heart melt. I don't
know what I've done to deserve such love and admiration. I just hope
that I can live up to their expectations.

Kavi had a scary episode on Superbowl Sunday. We were just getting
ready to go next door for the Superbowl party. I was upstairs with
Anika and she had just been getting upset about how she wanted to go
downstairs. Kavi and Mommy were downstairs, but they were coming
upstairs, so I wanted Anika to stay up here, rather than go down and
then come up again. I picked her up and held her in my arms to keep
her happy. I heard Kavi start coming up the stairs, and normally I
would have opened the baby-gate for him, but this time I didn't want
Anika to see me opening the gate, because I thought she'd start
getting upset again, wanting to go downstairs. Instead, I just stood a
few feet away from the gate, telling Anika, "See, Kavi's coming
upstairs." He's opened the gate hundreds of times and has never had
any trouble doing it. This time, however, he opened the gate, lost his
balance and the gate started swinging open over the stairs. He held on
to the gate and swung with it. He was hanging on tightly and I could
see his feet dangling, trying to find a foothold on a step, but since
the gate had swung open over the stairs, he was too high to reach the
stairs. I vividly saw the fear in his huge eyes and ran to the gate,
but by the time I got there, the gate had given way and he was
tumbling down the stairs. 

Time stopped. 

He screamed with the most terrified scream that I've ever heard. He
initially landed on his feet in the middle of the staircase, but the
momentum made him fly down the stairs and his head banged against the
far wall. The gate followed close behind and landed on top of
him. Anika started screaming in my arms. She instinctively knew that
something bad had happened. I initially bent over to put her down at
the top of the stairs and then quickly reconsidered, knowing that she
would want to come down with me and might fall in the process. I
picked her back up and headed down the stairs as Mala raced up from
the kitchen. I gave Anika to Mala as I grabbed Kavi and looked him
over. He had a tiny scrape on his head, but no bleeding. He seemed to
be complaining most about pain in his left arm and shoulder. It
reassured me a bit, because I was worried about his head, but then I
got worried that maybe he had broken his arm or something. We held him
for a while and put ice on his head and shoulders. Anika was tearful
watching all of this but calmed down quickly. Then I went upstairs to
fix the gate. 

Within a few minutes he was bouncing around without any sign that he
had fallen. I was so relieved, but I still have visions of his eyes
being full of fear as he was hanging from that swinging gate. I know
how lucky I am and how lucky we have been, in general. I also know
that there will be other scary moments in the future - it's a part of
life. Weathering this admittedly minor mishap took all the strength
and fortitude that I could muster. How do people do it? How do people
withstand bad things happening to their kids? I just don't know how
people can take so much potential pain. 

