---
categories:
- inspiring
- science
comments: true
date: '2012-08-07T15:17:43'
title: NASA Curiosity Lands
---


Like the rest of the geek world, we've been excited by Curiosity's
successful trip to Mars. Here's a cool video which combines an
animation of Curiosity's landing mixed with the real reactions of the
astronauts that got it there. (Found on [thekidshouldseethis.com](http://thekidshouldseethis.com/post/28851131280))

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/Ti_yre6dsa4" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

I've been disappointed that real space travel is unlikely to become a
reality during my life. I honestly thought it would when I was a kid.
But watching Curiosity gives me hope that we will be able to continue
exploring our universe. This trip to Mars was much more of an
achievement than the last one. Here's an animation of the last trip
(2003 Mars Exploration). Note that the final landing was achieved by
an air bag dropped roughly from high up in the air. Not much precision
required there.

<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/-_9BYSDtwRc" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

{{< imgcap src="/images/curiosity-size.jpg" title="Curiosity is huge (NASA)" class="right" >}} 

The Curiosity rover is too large for the airbag approach (See image at
right comparing it to previous rovers), so an alternate system was
devised using a sky crane which gently lowered the rover onto the
Martian surface. Dropping an airbag seems much easier than gently
landing a rover without damage. The real advance in our lifetime is
that our machines are getting more intelligent. And the exciting thing
is that I can actually participate in that type of exploration. I
think I just convinced myself to [learn how to program a robotic car!](http://www.udacity.com/overview/Course/cs373/CourseRev/apr2012)
