---
categories:
- blog
- writing
comments: true
date: '2012-08-03T14:50:25'
title: Blogging Again
---


I'm going to start blogging more. I know I've said that before, so
take it for what it's worth. I think there is value in blogging. I've
been thinking about my life a lot lately, trying to find what makes me
tick. One of those things that gets me excited is programming. I
started thinking about that and remembered this meme that had passed
around the blog world a few years back. It was a list of questions
related to how you got started programming. I remember it especially
because I remember reading MarkD's version and thinking how similar it
was to my own beginnings. Then, because I love going off on tangents,
I googled for 'How I got started in programming' to read other
responses. Many of the posts I found were on abandoned blogs. And now,
for the 'causal relationship not supported by data' statement. This is
because of Facebook and Twitter. OK, maybe it's just the natural decay
of blogs. But I am concerned about the fact that most people write in
forums that are controlled by other people rather in their own forum.
That was one of the cool promises of the web. A little place of your
own that you controlled. Facebook and Twitter and Google+ are all cool
services, but the more time I spend on them, the less time I spend
here. I'm sure other people have written about this with more
eloquence than I could, but the bottom line is that I want to keep
writing. I want to learn more about myself, I want to teach others
what little I know, and I want to learn from others. I've been
journalling a lot lately and that has been useful, but the act of
hitting 'publish' will make my writing better. That's what this blog
is for and I'm going to start using it again.

Maybe one of these days, I'll even put up my own answers to 'How I Got
Started in Programming', but in the meantime, go read
[MarkD's](http://borkwarellc.wordpress.com/2008/07/01/how-i-got-started-in-programming/)
