---
categories:
- gtd
comments: true
date: '2013-01-17T13:38:07'
title: Priorities and GTD
---


Pre-GTD task management systems recommended that you assign a priority
to each task. When looking at a list of tasks, you then choose the
ones with the highest priority. David Allen (author of GTD) includes
'priority' as one of the things that you should consider when you are
deciding what to do, but only after you have considered context, time
available, and energy available. Which makes sense. As Merlin Mann
says, it doesn't matter if mowing your lawn is your highest priority
when you're sitting in an airplane. Only if you're in the right
context with the right amount of time and the right amount of energy,
should you consider which of the remaining available tasks is highest
priority.

The risk, though, is that there are so many little 'easy' tasks that I
could do instead of important, 'hard' tasks. I'm also really good at
convincing myself that I don't have the energy available to do harder
tasks when I really should. So when I get back into GTD, I process all
the things hiding in the back of my brain which leads to the creation
of lots of simple tasks. Google this, buy that, throw away the other
thing. But the two things that I really want to be doing more are
writing and programming. Both of those take blocks of uninterrupted
time and effort, so I end up subconsciously shying away from them. I
actually feel better about it, too, because now I have all these other
tasks that I can do instead. So, I feel productive, even when ignoring
the more important things that I should be doing. I'm moving more
efficiently, but in the wrong direction.

I've avoided that a little bit this time by doing a little bit of
prioritization each night before I go to bed. I look through my todo
list and pick about 3-5 things that I want to get done the next day. I
tag those with the 'today' tag and then the next morning I look at
that list and start working on those things before doing anything
else. I've heard this
[trick](http://gettingresults.com/wiki/The_Rule_of_3) from a lot of
people before, so I don't remember who I heard it from first.

So far it's been effective for me. The problem always starts again
though when I go back on service, because then I can only really focus
on one thing and that is getting my work done at the hospital. We'll
see if I can somehow figure out a way to get at least one non-work
thing done on each of those days.
