---
categories:
- home
comments: true
date: '2018-12-02T23:33:53'
title: My Nest Journey
---


I got 2 [Nest E thermostats](https://amzn.to/2zE10T1) because Duke Energy was having a sale around
Black Friday. I didn't have any strong motivation to have a Nest. The idea of a smart home is cool,
but most 'smart' things nowadays have ended up being more work than benefit. Anyway, for $75 each, I
thought it was worth a try. We have 2 thermostats so I decided to install the upstairs thermostat
first. The process started off smooth and easy. I like that they provide a back plate, which I
didn't even notice until my trusty assistant, Kavi, pointed it out. My existing Honeywell thermostat
is rectangular and if I just put the small circular Nest in its place, there would be a big chunk of
unpainted real estate on the wall. Having the back plate prevented this from being a 'replace
thermostat, and learn how to patch and paint the wall' project. The online 
[Nest compatibility checker](https://nest.com/support/article/How-to-tell-if-your-heating-and-cooling-system-will-work-with-the-Nest-Thermostat#works/?mode=guide)
and the paper instruction manual (which includes stickers to label the existing wires) are also nice
touches. That all gave me the (misguided?) confidence that even I could do this. A study confidence
which lasted until I flipped the circuit breaker back on and .... nothing happened. According to the
manual, the Nest was supposed to turn on, say Hi, and then walk me through the set up process. But
it remained dead as a doorknob. I pulled it off the wall and plugged it in via USB (a nice
troubleshooting feauture). It turned on and then when I placed it back on the wall, it complained
that it was not getting enough power from the R wire. The error code was E195. When I looked at the
'Technical Info', it reported that the R wire was only providing 2-3 volts, while it needed 24. I
chatted up Nest support, which took about 30 minutes to connect on a Friday night. The
representative was responsive and useful. They eventually recommended trying to disconnect the C
(common) wire. For a reason I still can't explain, this brought the voltage on the R wire from 2-3
volts up to 35 volts, and my Nest was working.

Having tasted the sweet nectar of success, I then tried to swap my second Nest in for my downstairs
thermostat. I made a huge mistake here. It had been easy to identify the circuit breaker for my
upstairs furnance because it was labelled, "Up Furnace". But there was nothing labelling the
downstairs furnace. I switched off the circuit breaker that I thought was responsible for the
downstairs HVAC, but in hindsight, I think I got the wrong one (and since it was warm out and the
heater wasn't running, I didn't notice because nothing was running in the first place). Anyway, I
walked through the rest of the instructions and again got to the point where the Nest was supposed
to power on, but it didn't. So I powered it on via USB and placed it back on the wall.
Unfortunately, this time I was getting only 0.01 volts from the R line. Still, I was hoping that the
'disconnect the C wire' trick would work again. Unfortunately, disconnecting the C wire did nothing.
I walked through things with Customer Service chat. Again, they were helpful (rather than just
spouting cookbook-type basic info), but in the end, they didn't have a recommendation that would fix
things. They suggested that I get a voltmeter and test the voltage output at the various wires. I do
not have a voltmeter and felt that I was getting in over my head, so instead I put in some calls to
HVAC service companies, but since it was the weekend and this wasn't urgent, I was resigned to
having no heat over the weekend. I watched a few Youtube videos of HVAC repairs, some of which were
quite entertaining. Eventually, I tried to reconnect my old Honeywell thermostat and was surprised
and intrigued when this ALSO failed. It made me think that I messed something up somehow. The only
thing I could think of was that since I hit the wrong circuit breaker, there was live current in the
wires. While moving them from the Honeywell to the Nest, perhaps I touched 2 wires together causing
the system to short circuit. I don't remember noticing a spark or anything, but that was my best
guess. I eventually watched enough videos to give myself confidence that I could open up the HVAC
and find the electrical panel. I did that successfully (after turning off the CORRECT circuit
breaker, and also pulling out the pull out switch next to the furnace). After cleaning out a ton of
cobwebs, I found the LED light on the electrical panel was off (even after connecting the circuits
temporarily). I searched the panel and found a 3-amp E fuse (like the kind I've seen in automobile
fuseboxes). I pulled it out and sure enough, it was blown. It looked like the 'bad fuse' in this
[photo](https://www.yourmechanic.com/article/how-to-check-fuses-by-rocco-lovetere). Off to Home
Depot, I purchased 2 replacements for 3 dollars, and then replaced the busted fuse with the new one.
I flipped the circuit breaker and put the pull-in switch back in. The first encouraging sign was
that the red LED light on the electrical panel turned on. I went inside and, joy of joys, the Nest
was booting up and showed 35V via the R wire. So, I guess the bottom line is that I need to be more
careful when I'm at the circuit breaker box.
