---
date: 2021-12-26T08:36:00
title: USB-C lint
categories:
- tech support
---

## The problem

The USB-C cord kept falling out of my Android phone. It started happening in the car. A
little bump while driving would make the cord fall out. Then it started happening even
when I just had it plugged in on a table. I'd come down in the morning and the charge
would be drained because it hadn't been fully plugged in. Finally, I couldn't even get
it to charge unless I plugged it in forcefully, and put a book under the cord at a
certain angle to keep it plugged in.

## The googling

Googling for this problem didn't find anything specific to my phone, but I did find
people complaining of this issue and other people telling them that this was because of
lint in the USB-C port.
[[1]](https://www.reddit.com/r/nexus5x/comments/4morbk/comment/d3xaqew/)
[[2]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bNlM0i9PUTQ)
[[3]](https://www.ifixit.com/Answers/View/382427/Whats+the+best+way+to+clean+and+maintain+the+USB-C+port)

I just needed to get that lint out somehow.

## What didn't work

1. Compressed air
1. A toothpick (it was too thick)
1. A plastic zip tie (It was too flimsy)

## What did work

A SIM card removal tool. You know, one of those things that they send you with a new
phone to poke into the SIM card housing to get it to eject? It was the perfect size and
depth to be able to get all the way around the SIM card and get copious amounts of lint
(ewww!) out of the port. Now my USB-C cord plugs in with a satisfying click and stays
connected.

## Philosophical musings

It's weird that this three year old phone now feels new to me. For a while now, I would
have a little dread every time I went to plug in this phone, knowing that it would be
fiddly and that I might come down to a dead phone in the morning. Now, with this little
improvement, I feel a weird warmth towards the phone again, similar to that feeling I
had when it was a new phone. I cleaned out the lint a few weeks ago, and I still have
this warm sensation towards it. Every time I plug it in, I get a little burst of
happiness when it clicks in satisfyingly. It's almost as if seeing a problem with the
phone that I didn't think would exist, and then seeing a solution to that problem, makes
me appreciate the phone more than if it had never had that problem. That just feels
weird and revelatory to me.
