---
date: 2021-11-27T19:52:00
title: Loving the frame.work laptop
categories:
- computers
---

I have a new [favorite laptop](https://frame.work/products/laptop-diy-edition). I needed
a new non-work laptop and Linux is my OS of choice. It has been for at least a decade,
but recently that favoritism has been cemented since I chose to use a Macbook Pro for
work. After 6 months with the Mac, I'm finally starting to feel productive with it, but
it has been a painful re-learning (and un-learning) process. I still fondly return to my
Linux machines at the end of the work day. Mac OS X is just too "in-your-face" for me.

So I started planning to get another ThinkPad when I heard about
[frame.work](https://frame.work) on Hacker News. They are a startup focused on building
functional, modular, **repairable** laptops which are also beautiful, light and fun to
use. Check out their "About" page for more about their mission, but it resonated with
me. I've always loved [poke](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PEEK_and_POKE)ing around my
computers and it's unfortunately gotten much harder to do that with all of my electronic
devices. Frame.work is fighting against that trend.

{{< imgcap src="/images/frame-work-unboxed.jpg" title="Frame.work laptop contents" >}}

They have a DIY option where you install your own RAM, SSD and WiFi module. Even the
non-DIY option comes in with external pluggable modules so you can configure your
accessories. I got 2 USB-C ports, a USB-A port, an HDMI-port, and an SD-card reader. But
it's simple to pop out a module and pop in a new one. I don't see myself doing that too
much, but when I do need that SD card reader, I'll be smiling. Setting up the DIY parts was
fun and easy. Each part has a QR code on the part and on the location in the laptop
where it gets installed, which points to detailed instructions.

{{< imgcap src="/images/frame-work-insides.jpg" title="Frame.work laptop insides" >}}

Ubuntu 20.04 doesn't work out of the box (WiFi issues, I think?), so I installed 21.04,
and everything works except for the fingerprint reader (which never worked with Ubuntu
for me on my ThinkPad either). There are instructions to build the software needed to
get it to work, but I'll wait for it to get rolled into a future OS release (I'm old).

Overall, the computer itself is a dream. The screen is large and bright. The keyboard is
dreamy, compared to my Thinkpad X1 Carbon. I think it's better than my MacBook Pro too,
but honestly that thing is too huge to use as a laptop so I always use it with an
external keyboard. The computer is light and the battery life is more than adequate for
my needs (though there are gripes and workarounds on the forums about this).

{{< imgcap src="/images/frame-work.jpg" title="Frame.work laptop" >}}

I thought that there would be more rough edges to the whole process, but I've been
pleasantly surprised. I hope others like it as much as I do so that the company sticks
around!
