---
layout: post
title: Notes to a young(er) investor
tags: investing, finances, stocks
---
_A friend asked for some investing advice. Here was my response._

I have a feeling this is going to be long... :-)

First thing - I don't know your exact financial situation, but I know
you're in great shape for the long run. Anyone thinking this seriously
about their finances this early in life will do fine. Also, since I don't
know much about your exact situation, this may be a little
'condescending'. I'm sure you know I don't mean it that way. Just take what
you need from it and leave the rest. Also feel free to ask questions about
anything at any time. I love finances and it would be my pleasure to help
if there's any way that I can. I've read A LOT of books and stuff, so it
would be nice to be of use to others.

The **ABSOLUTE** most important thing is to get out of debt. Nothing else
kills a financial future more than debt. No matter how good of an investor
you are, you won't get anywhere if you don't take care of your debt. So
that's always got to be your main focus. Until you are completely debt free
(except for a mortgage), I wouldn't put too much time into investing. Have
you heard of [Dave Ramsey](http://www.daveramsey.com/)? He has a talk-radio
show about getting out of debt. It is excellent. It's a bit basic
sometimes, and like all talkradio hosts, he's a bit "over the top"
sometimes, but it is really useful information. And it helps keep you
focused.

And a book that everyone should read is <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0671015206?ie=UTF8&tag=vinodkurupshomep&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0671015206">The
Millionaire Next Door</a><img
src="http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=vinodkurupshomep&l=as2&o=1&a=0671015206"
width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important;
margin:0px !important;" />, which discusses the habits that financially
successful people share. It also focuses on getting out of debt and living
more simply. The advice seems pretty sound even though the methodology of
the book isn't. Taking a bunch of millionaires and finding out common
features among them **is not** good science.

All that said, thinking about investing at any time is a useful
endeavor. Just as long as you maintain your focus on getting out of debt.

When it comes to stocks, it's my belief that the only people who should be
investing in individual stocks are those who enjoy it. If you don't enjoy
reading financial statements and analyzing stocks, then you shouldn't be
doing it. Life is too short. Do stuff you enjoy and make your financial
plan as simple as possible. The good news is that your overall return will
still be in the top 10-20% of all investors. 

The most important part of investing is following a strict plan. And that
plan should be focused on asset allocation. What does that mean? There are
various classes of assets that you can invest in. The most common ones are
stocks, bonds, and real estate. Within each class, there are subclasses,
like small stocks, value stocks, international stocks, etc. It's almost
impossible to know which class will do well over the short term, even
though the talking heads on CNBC will tell you they think they
know. Studies show that it's a toss up. So, the smartest thing to do is to
look at the long term return of each asset class (past 20-50 years), decide
what percent of your portfolio you want to place in each class, and then
STICK WITH IT THROUGH THICK AND THIN. That is capitalized because that is
the most important part. If you constantly adjust your percentages because
you "think" large tech stocks are going to start doing well, then you will
kill this approach. Everyone thought tech stocks were going to do well in
1999\. 2000 killed them. My favorite book describing this strategy and the
rationale behind it is <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0393330338?ie=UTF8&tag=vinodkurupshomep&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0393330338">A
Random Walk Down Wall Street</a><img
src="http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=vinodkurupshomep&l=as2&o=1&a=0393330338"
width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important;
margin:0px !important;" /> byBurton Malkiel.

Once you decide what your asset classes should be and what percentages you
want to invest in each (I can help you with suggestions), then you find a
**LOW COST** index fund that tracks that asset class and buy the
appropriate amount. Then just leave it alone until next year. Look at the
results and if one or more asset classes has gotten out of whack with your
desired percentages, then rebalance. Sell a little of the one which has
gotten too big and buy a little of the one that has gotten too small.

This way, you are automatically selling an asset class AFTER it has risen
and buying an asset class when it has been beaten down. You're buying low
and selling high.

For someone who wanted the simplest possible investment plan, I would
recommend putting 75% of their portfolio into a broad stock fund (VFINX)
and 25% into a simple low-cost bond fund (VBMFX). Then just rebalance every
year. But you can also make this more complex by splitting the stock
portion into domestic and international, then small and large companies,
etc. It can be as complex as you want; just be sure to keep it consistent
from year to year. That is the key which will allow you to buy assets when
they are at their low point and sell them when they are high.

Now, if you want to invest in individual stocks, I'd recommend keeping it
to a small portion of your overall portfolio (< 10%). Figuring out how to
value stocks is an art that takes a lifetime. The one book that I'd
recommend is <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0060555661?ie=UTF8&tag=vinodkurupshomep&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0060555661">The
Intelligent Investor</a><img
src="http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=vinodkurupshomep&l=as2&o=1&a=0060555661"
width="1" height="1" border="0" alt="" style="border:none !important;
margin:0px !important;" />, by Benjamin Graham. It was written decades ago,
but it gives the groundwork necessary to understand how to invest in
stocks.

In order to really successfully invest in individual stocks, you need to be
able to identify companies that have a sustainable competitive
advantage. This is something that I have a lot of trouble with and haven't
really pursued enough. This is what Warren Buffett does. If you really want
to understand this process, read everything on [this
page](http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/letters.html).

This email is getting a bit long. So let me know if what I scribbled is
understandable and if you have any questions. There's more trivia locked up
in this brain of mine, if you want more :-)

Must read books:
 - Millionaire next door
 - A Random Walk Down Wallstreet
 - Intelligent Investor

Good intro web site:
 - [Motley Fool](http://www.fool.com/school/basics/basics01.htm)

Radio show (can download podcasts to listen whenever you want):
 - [Dave Ramsey show](http://www.daveramsey.com/)
