---
date: 2010/07/16 21:01:00
layout: post
title: inotify
tags: linux unix sysadmin
---

[incron](http://inotify.aiken.cz/) seems to be a pretty neat tool. It's
cron-for-file-activities. [Cron](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) is a
common unix tool that allows you to run any command at a specified
time. It's immensely useful for running anything that you want to occur on
a regular basis: backups, daily reminder emails, downloading podcasts,
etc. If you've used unix to any significant extent, you've used cron.

incron takes that cron metaphor and applies it to file activity. You
specify which files you want to watch, and then you specify which activities
you are interested in. If incron notices any of those activities occurring
on your files, it launches the command that you specified. Activities could
include creating a new file, modifying a file, accessing a file, among
multiple other possibilities. incron takes advantage of the inotify system
built into recent linux kernels, which supposedly is more efficient than
previous ways of doing this same thing.

incron seemed to be just what I wanted. I wanted to watch a specific
directory and launch a tool to rebuild my website if any of those files
changed. The problem is that incron doesn't work recursively on
directories. You have to specify each directory, the activities on that
directory, and the command to launch. If you create new directories, you
have to tell incron about them specifically. This ruins the benefit of the
tool for me. It seems the developer has been planning to implement
recursive watching for the past 4 years ago, but hasn't done it yet. If it
hasn't happened in 4 years, it's probably not going to happen soon.

But, I found a perfectly usable way to get what I
want. [inotify-tools](http://wiki.github.com/rvoicilas/inotify-tools/)
includes a program called `inotifywait`. It takes a file or directory name
and listens for specific activities that you are interested in. It
basically waits until it sees one of those activities and then returns
control back to you. So, you can something like (pseudocode):

    while (inotifywait /home/vinod/web/kurup.org):
        # triggered
        rebuild my server

`inotifywait` waits for my activities. If it finds one, it returns TRUE and
my server gets rebuilt, and then the while loop restarts. Best of all,
`inotifywait` can work recursively on a directory. Which brings me to my
`watch-rebuild.sh` script which watches my web source files for changes,
and rebuilds the web generated files on demand. It also pops up a little
GNOME notification using `notify-send`:

$$code(lang=bash)
    #!/bin/bash
    
    BLOGOFILE='/usr/local/bin/blogofile'
    BLOGDIR='/home/vinod/web/kurup.org'
    
    # requires libnotify-bin for notify-osd notification
    # requires inotify-tools
    while LINE=$(inotifywait -rq --timefmt '%F %R' --format '%T %e %f' \
          -e close_write -e move -e delete "$BLOGDIR");
    do
            echo -n "Rebuilding $LINE ..."
            $BLOGOFILE -s $BLOGDIR build
            echo "done"
            notify-send -u low "Rebuild Done" "Watching again"
    done
$$/code

`-r` = recursive  
`-q` = be quiet  
`--timefmt` & `--format` = what we want to display on the command line  
`-e` = each of the individual events that we are interested in
