---
date: 2011/05/12 10:35:21
layout: post
title: SHM 2011
tags: hospitalist medicine
---

Here are some (unorganized) thoughts about my experience at the
Society of Hospital Medicine (SHM) 2011 conference in Dallas, TX. The
initial presentation dissected the SHM Annual Compensation survey,
discussing how much hospitalists are getting paid and how hard they're
working. I understand the importance of that stuff, but ever since I
got my first $638.36 paycheck as an intern, money hasn't been an issue
for me.

The second talk was by Bob Kocher, an Obama insider during the
healthcare reform legislation. Gerry would have loved this one. He
briefly described how a bill becomes a law... it apparently doesn't
follow the Schoolhouse Rock model anymore. An one point, reform looked
dead, when the Catholic Nuns came out in favor of the legislation
allowing multiple congress members to change their vote to "Yes". As
Kocher put it (paraphrasing), "When the Nuns broke with the Bishops,
healthcare reform could move forward." Doesn't that seem like a
statement that should be in a history book about medieval times,
rather than a statement about 2010 United States politics?  Maybe it's
just me...

### Neurologic emergencies

The Neurologic emergencies talk was entertaining, though maybe more
useful to an intensivist. David Likosky is hilarious in a geeky kind
of way. A few things I learned:

Always maintain a good differential diagnosis and don't jump to a
conclusion too quickly. He described a case of an alcoholic who
presented in coma and had dynamic pupils making a brainstem stroke the
most likely diagnosis. A lot of time was spent to rule that out, and
then his labs came back with a sugar of 13, indicating that the
diagnosis of hypoglycemia was missed. He described some of the reasons
that happened and I can see them happening to me. The point is never
to get fixated on a diagnosis, but to make sure that you've done the
proper initial workup. A fingerstick glucose should always be done in
a coma workup.

A few points on status epilepticus (SE)

- Convulsive SE is a seizure that lasts more than 5 minutes, and is a medical
emergency. 
- Lorazepam is probably better than Diazepam and don't be
afraid to use high doses (Start at 4 IV). We commonly underdose and
underdosing hurts. 
- Nonconvulsive SE is considered as a medical urgency. A lot of
patients have SE on EEG after convulsions have stopped and many have
persistent subclinical seizures after SE is controlled. So, repeat the
EEG, monitor the EEG.
- Absence seizures is really a diagnosis of children. (Not really
  about SE)

Things to make you think that a CVA may be posterior circulation: Loss
of consciousness, pupillary abnormalities, superhigh BP. Allow it to
stay superhigh and keep the patient flat. Because posterior
circulation strokes have such bad outcomes, it's OK to intervene after
the window if there doesn't seem to be any other hope.

### Dermatology images (Paul Aronowitz)

When approaching a rash, ask 3 questions: Did the patient cause this
rash? Did we do that to the patient? (Ask this twice). Is this rash a
manifestation of some other disease? We often jump to the third
question, but should consider the first two.

The snake bite risk factors are pretty interesting: 
- Male
- Age 17-27
- Deliberate attempt to handle, harm or kill snake
- Summer months
- Alcohol intoxication
- Tattoos

DRESS (Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) usually
occurs 2-6 weeks after the drug is started, but occurs quicker after
rechallenge with the drug.

Reactive arthritis can be seen after Clostridium difficile infections.

20% of cases of Neisseria meningitidis do not have meningitis.

### Poster presentations

The poster presentations are always fun to read, though if I see one
more poster about the readmission problem, I will vomit.

### Research Abstract Awards

The winning research abstracts were very interesting. 

- UCSF described changes that they made to meet new ACGME requirements
while decreasing costs and improving certain quality measures. 
- Johns Hopkins hospitalists modified their CPOE system to show the
costs of specific lab tests, hoping to change provider behavior. They
were able to show that providers ordered less tests when they saw the
cost. Duh, you say, but there is so little cost information available
to providers, so this is innovative if only for that reason.
- Hospitalists (in Colorado, I think?) used the Toyota Production
System to model problems with current intern work schedules. They then
reworked the schedule to minimize waste of resident resources, while
improving continuity and resident satisfaction. They were able to
basically eliminate moonlighter and jeopardy use. I didn't quite
understand the schedule because it was presented quickly, but I like
how they analyzed where resources were being wasted and adjusted
things to minimize that waste. I also like that they optimized for
continuity of care, so that after the intervention there was a huge
increase in the amount of patients that were seen only by 1 intern
during their stay. Very interesting!

My attention faded during the award presentations and SHM motivational
speeches, but Joseph Li, the incoming SHM president, did come clean
and acknowledge that he was born outside the U.S., despite his lack of
an accent. The birthers were right!

Emory Hospitalists then presented a talk which was titled 'Utilizing
Technology to Improve Clinical and Operational Performance of
Hospitalists' but it should really have been titled "Geographic
Bedside Rounds: Just Do It!". They did mention the IT improvements
they've made to support geographic rounding, but the value of the talk
was in describing how they implemented geographic rounding and how it
has been received by the involved parties. Moving to geographic
rounding helps providers the least. It's basically an addition to our
workload. On the other hand, patients, nurses, and social workers get
a lot of benefit and obviously, the patients are the most important
factor here. We will have to see the patient more than once and our
workflow will have to change, but it seems that the benefits outweigh
the extra costs to the individual provider. Paraphrased, "Nurses and
social workers would riot if we stopped this system, but even
hospitalists wouldn't want to go back to the old way, if put to a
referendum." Something that only came out in the post-talk questions
was how this has improved overall teamwork. They used to have a
complicated system about how new admissions were assigned, taking into
account census numbers, discharge numbers, and other factors. Now,
with the new system, there are days that one hospitalist will have
completely unequal numbers or new patients than another hospitalist,
but it is understood that things will even out over time. That has
encouraged hospitalists to stop focusing on numbers and instead to
focus on making things run better, so hospitalists who were previously
"anti-teamwork" are now offering to help out when they're done with
their work. Anecdotal, but I like stories like that.
