---
date: 2011/05/07 20:44:27
layout: post
title: Philosopher's Way Trail Run
tags: running
---
I ran the 15K [Philosopher's Way Trail
Run](http://www.trailheads.org/pwtr/) today. It's on the eastern end
of Carolina North Forest. I've been running a lot on the western end
of these trails so I had never seen any of these trails before. The
weather was perfect - sunny and mid 50's - and the trails were in good
shape. I only got a little muddy. The race was very well organized for
such a small race. The only minor annoyance was the beginning of the
race where a couple hundred runners turned from a 20 foot wide course
onto a single track bike course. Everyone came to a halt and we all
walked for about a quarter mile. I didn't really start running
smoothly until about a mile in and the next 3 miles were spent passing
and waiting, passing and waiting. That in itself is ok ... it's part
of trail running. I would've just extended the time that we were on
the wide tack to give time for people to string out a bit more. Like I
said ... minor annoyance.

Once we got moving, I had a blast. I just love running in the woods. I
felt unstoppable until about mile 7 and then I lost my gumption and my
thighs started to complain. I held on to the people in front of me as
much as I could, but one person did pass me at the end, the only
person to pass me in the last 5 miles. I think I saw 1:33 as I
finished, but my GPS time was 1:29:09. I think it stops the clock
whenever it thinks I have stopped and it got really confused on the
trails. It recorded my final distance as 6.0 miles which is 3.3 miles
too short. I had suspicions that my earlier trail runs were
underestimated, but never thought it was this inaccurate. My [B
goal](http://www.lovingtherun.com/running-tips/the-a-b-cs) was 1:30 so
I was close and I definitely hit my C goal. 

I'll definitely be doing this run again next year, if I'm free. I'm
currently posting my runs at [dailymile](http://www.dailymile.com/) (a
cool site built by two [UW
grads](http://onwisconsin.uwalumni.com/departments/ben-weiner-06-and-kelly-korevec-06-partnership-in-motion/)),
so [follow me](http://www.dailymile.com/people/vkurup) there!

