---
date: 2011/05/22 20:51:03
layout: post
title: Google Listen doesn't rock
tags: podcasts android
---

In the years I've been listening to podcasts, I've only found 2
podcast clients that I've really liked: iTunes (back around 2005-2007)
and a bash script that I wrote which simply copied files downloaded by
[podget](http://podget.sourceforge.net/) onto my iPod nano. [Google
Listen](http://listen.googlelabs.com/) on my Droid X (Android 2.2) is
tolerable, but only barely. I think my requirements are simple. I want
to put in URLs and have the client get all the podcasts in that URL
and stick them in a queue. I want the client to refresh every N hours
and add new files to the queue. I want the client to automatically
download each file in the queue. Once I listen to a file, I want the
client to delete it from my device. I'd like a configurable option to
be able to save a file, while I'm listening to it, so if I am
listening to something that I want to hear again, I hit a save button
and it won't automatically be deleted. If I don't like an episode, I'd
like to hit 'next' to have that podcast deleted and the next one
started. Finally, I want some statistics about which podcasts I'm
listening to, which ones I'm skipping, and then some suggestions about
which podcasts I might like. A product from Google should be able to
do this. Unfortunately, I can't reliably tell which podcasts I'm
subscribed to. There is a 'subscribe' button in each one, and when I
click it, it changes to 'unsubscribe', but then when I back out and
come back, it says 'subscribe' again, so I'm not sure if I am
subscribed or unsubscribed. When I subscribe, the podcasts show up in
Google Reader, and I don't want them there. I understand the idea of
reusing Google Reader since it is a RSS/Atom reader, but I never
listen to podcasts on my computer. I don't know what happens if I mark
something as read in Google Reader. Does that mean it won't show up in
Listen? I haven't figured it out. Each time I start Listen, it seems
that a different podcast starts, rather than starting where I left
off. Well, it's inconsistent. Sometimes it works, sometimes it
doesn't. Skipping a podcast doesn't delete it, although there is a
config option for that. Maybe I'm just doing it wrong. Most
annoyingly, it doesn't automatically download all the podcasts, so
when one finishes, I have to wait for the next one to start buffering
and if I'm driving and I happen to be in a poor 3G service area, that
might take a while. Maybe this should be my first Android project?
