---
date: 2011/07/20 19:15:29
layout: post
title: Daivame Kaithozham
tags: family
---

Ever since I was a boy, I have been singing a song called 'Daivame
Kaithozham', which is pronounced 'Dave-O-May Kie-Tho-Ram'. My parents
taught it to me when I was about 5 years old, so I learned it by
learning the syllables in the song. I know bits and pieces of
Malayalam, but not enough to know what the words of the song
mean. Whenever I'm feeling stressed, I sing it under my breath and it
makes me feel better. Kavi wasn't the best sleeper as a baby, so we
spent a lot of time singing him back to sleep. Daivame Kaithozham was
one of my standbys and he has heard it literally thousands of
times. Even now, I sing it to him and Anika almost daily, though he
has requested that I cut it down to weekly. (He likes Laurie Berkner's
"Moon, moon, moon" better. Oh well.) Both Anika and Kavi have heard it
enough that they can mimic me singing it, thought they don't know the
words...  mostly just the rhythm. But, it's the cutest thing in the
world to see Anika pick up her doll, put it on the floor and start
singing "Daivame..."

Anyway, I finally (after 30 something years) asked my parents what the
song means, so here is the translation. I'm not the most religious
person in the world, but if you replace God with whatever supernatural
force you believe in, I think it's a nice simple prayer.

## Daivame Kaithozham

   Daivame kaithozham kelkumarakanam
   Pavamamenne nee kakkumarakanam
   Ennullil bhaktiyundakumarakanam
   Ninne jnanennume kanumarakanam

   Nervazhikkenne nee kondupoyeedanam
   Nervarum sankadam bhasmamayeedanam    
   Dushtasamsargam varatheyayeedanam
   Shishtarayullavar thozharayeedanam

   Nalla karyangalil premamundakanam
   Nalla vakkothuvan thraniyundakanam
   Kruthyangal cheyyuvan sradhayundakanam
   Satyam paranjeedan saktiyundakana

## Translated

   O’Almighty God my humble salutation, may you kindly listen to my prayers
   May you always protect this poor innocent one from all my sufferings.
   May my devotion to you flourish in my heart without any interruptions
   May I always visualize your eternal divine form within and without.

   O’ God lead me through the right path 
   Annihilate all obstructions facing me 
   And protect me from evil interactions
   Provide me with serene and sober friends.

   May I always impart compassion and love to all
   O’ Lord provide me courage to talk only good words
   May I be provided with the right convictions to do my duties
   And give me your blessed strength to tell always the truth alone.
